DOC-14045: Adding blurb about JWT Authentication in Eventing (#667)
couchbaselabs/docs-devex: modules/eventing/pages/eventing-rbac.adoc

image::rbac_user_view.png[,%100]

== RBAC with JWT Authentication

> NOTE: JWT Authentication support for Eventing is supported in the next major release of the Couchbase Server.

Reviewer: Can we change this to active voice? 
```suggestion
NOTE: In the next major release of the Couchbase Server and later, the Eventing Service supports JWT Authentication. 
```

In addition to Basic Authentication and mutual TLS(mTLS), Eventing supports *JSON Web Token (JWT) Authentication*. 
This provides secure, short-lived sessions for crucial operations, consistent with the JWT support available for Indexing, Query, Backup, and XDCR.

JWT Authentication is performed over the REST API by passing a bearer token in the `Authorization` header. 
It operates in two distinct provisioning modes: 

> * `jitProvisioning=true`: The user is just-in-time (JIT) provisioned from an external Identity Provider (IdP).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* `jitProvisioning=true`: The user is just-in-time (JIT) provisioned from an external Identity Provider (IdP).
```
Let's add a line break here so that the list renders correctly.

* `jitProvisioning=false`: The user already exists in Couchbase RBAC.

[NOTE]
====

> When JWT Authentication is active with `jitProvisioning=true`, guardrails in the Eventing codebase restrict certain operations. Specifically, *creating, importing, or deleting* Eventing Functions via the REST API is not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When JWT Authentication is active with `jitProvisioning=true`, guardrails in the Eventing codebase restrict certain operations. 
Specifically, you cannot create, import, or delete Eventing Functions through the REST API.
```

image::rbac_user_view.png[,%100]

== RBAC with JWT Authentication

> NOTE: JWT Authentication support for Eventing is an Early Release feature in Couchbase Server 8.1.0.

Reviewer 2: For early access we are avoiding the server number

```suggestion
JWT Authentication support for Eventing is supported in the next major release of Couchbase Server.
```

In addition to Basic Authentication and mutual TLS(mTLS), Eventing supports *JSON Web Token (JWT) Authentication*. 

> This provides secure, short-lived sessions (defaulting to 5 minutes) for crucial operations, consistent with the JWT support available for Indexing, Query, Backup, and XDCR.

Reviewer 3: Since the token expiry time is customizable, we don't need to hardcode or mention the 5-minute default value.

```suggestion
This provides secure, short-lived sessions for crucial operations, consistent with the JWT support available for Indexing, Query, Backup, and XDCR.
```

Author: Thank you for the clarification. Removed it.

> This provides secure, short-lived sessions (defaulting to 5 minutes) for crucial operations, consistent with the JWT support available for Indexing, Query, Backup, and XDCR.

Reviewer 3: Let's add documentation reference links for any external services supporting JWT wherever they are available.

Author: As we discussed, this might not be required. Hence, leaving this as is for now. Will add the links to the other Couchbase Server documentation that explains JWT Authentication in detail. Will add it later when it is ready.

Reviewer 2: I think the server docs team might be adding overview docs for the use of JWT in Couchbase. We can merge this PR without links to those overview docs for now, and then add links when the overview docs are ready.

JWT Authentication is performed over the REST API by passing a bearer token in the `Authorization` header. It operates in two distinct provisioning modes: 
* `jitProvisioning=true`: The user is just-in-time (JIT) provisioned from an external Identity Provider (IdP).
* `jitProvisioning=false`: The user already exists in Couchbase RBAC.

[NOTE]
====
When JWT Authentication is active with `jitProvisioning=true`, guardrails in the Eventing codebase restrict certain operations. Specifically, *creating, importing, or deleting* Eventing Functions via the REST API is not supported.
All other Eventing REST API operations remain fully functional under this mode.

To create, import, or delete Eventing Functions, you must use one of the following authentication methods instead:

* Basic Authentication
* mTLS
* JWT Authentication with `jitProvisioning=false`

In all the cases, the user must be present in Couchbase RBAC with at least the <<minimal-eventing-rbac-role, Minimal Eventing RBAC role>> privileges.
====

////
Note for the writer:
* Get the above section checked/reviewed by the SME.

> * Once the core JWT Authentication documentation is merged, uncomment and update the xrefs/links below to point to the relevant documentation for more information.

Reviewer 2: Delete this section before merging

```suggestion
```

Author: Will do - during the next iteration/before merging.

== See Also

> * xref:[insert-jwt-file].adoc[JWT Authentication]

Reviewer 2: Comment this line out before merging. (See my comment above about overview docs for the use of JWT in Couchbase)

```suggestion
// * xref:[insert-jwt-file].adoc[JWT Authentication]
```
